---
layout: ../../layouts/tutorial/TextTutorial.astro
title: "How to use the embed API or load custom library"
description: "Depends on the OS/API version use library shipped with the OS image or load custom library from the app folder."
created: "2020/08/14"
modified: "2020/08/14"
profile: ["mobile","wearable","tv","iot"]
type: "dotnet"
level: 1
state: "closed"
thumbnail: ""
---


# 

## Guide

 

Developer wants the app to use custom version of the library shipped with the TizenOS (e.g. 
`Tizen.Log.dll`
) when the app runs on the system with Tizen API Version 8 and above, while use the original library for older OS images.

 

 

 **1. Build C API library** 

As C# API is just a wrapper layer over C API, first we need to get custom C API file, which is a shared object file. Compile C dynamically linked library with unique name, e.g. 
`libdlog-apiX.so`
. Avoid using semantic versioning to possibly not interfere with Tizen versioning. Rather add suffix to the library original name.

```bash
$ gcc -c -Wall -Werror -fpic dlog.c
$ gcc -shared -o libdlog-apiX.so dlog.o
```

 **Output** : File with name 
`libdlog-apiX.so`


 

 

 **2. Build C# API library** 

Build C# API dynamically linked library (Class Library in VS) which uses Platform Invoke to call C API from 
`libdlog-apiX.so`
 (created in the previous step). Make sure to change Assemby Name to some unique one, so it does not  *colide*  with the one used from NuGet or loaded externally.

 **Output** : File with name 
`Tizen.Log-apiX.dll`


 

 

 **`3.`
 Add C# API library to your app project** 

Make a right click on the app project in VS and from content menu select: 
`Add`
 > 
`Project Reference..`
 In the Reference Manager window, select 
`Browse`
 on the left hand side. Next, click on 
`Browse...`
 button in the right-down corner and select DLL file with your C# API library - in our case it's 
`Tizen.Log-ApiX.dll`
.

 

 

 **4. Copy C API library to your app project** 

Make sure to copy over the shared object library file 
`libdlog-apiX.so`
 to 
`lib/`
 folder in your project, as it would be used by our C# API library.

 

 

 **5. Set alias for custom C# API library** 

As the custom C# API library (
`Tizen.Log-ApiX.dll`
) is using the same namespaces and type names as the original version of C# API library (
`Tizen.Log.dll`
) there would be a conflict between those two APIs. To avoid that must set an alias for out custom C# API. As alias is a additional root-level namespace added to the namespace imported from library file.

To set an alias, expand following tree under your project in the VS Solution Explorer: 
`Dependencies`
 > 
`Assemblies`
 and make a right click on custom C# API library, which in our case is 
`Tizen.Log-apiX`
. In the context menu select 
`Properties`
. On the properties window, in 
`General`
 section, set value 
`ApiX`
 for 
`Alias`
 key.

After setting alias in Solution Explorer Properties, in every CS file where you want to use custom C# API, you must add following line at the top of file (it must be put before any 
`using`
):

```csharp
extern alias ApiX;
```

 

Here is example CS code for using both C# API, original and custom:

```csharp
// Call method from original C# API from Tizen.Log.dll`:
Tizen.Log.Debug("DEMO", "Logging with Tizen.Log.dll");

// Call method from custom C# API from Tizen.Log-ApiX.dll`:
ApiX.Tizen.Log.Debug("DEMO", "Logging with Tizen.Log-ApiX.dll");
```

 

 

 **6. Use correct API depends on the Tizen API Version** 

During the runtime, get the Tizen API Version:

```csharp
int TizenAPIVersion = Tizen.Common.DotnetUtil.TizenAPIVersion;

if (TizenAPIVersion < 8)
{
   // TODO
}
else
{
   // TODO
}
```

 

 

 **7. Use Factory Method pattern to get concrete implementation depends on the Tizen API Version** 

